The Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud, EC2 is one of the original and most important services on AWS.

EC2 enables you to run virtual servers in the cloud.

Running Linux, Windows, or Mac OS.

It's also used by many other services in AWS, so it's really one of the most important technologies

to understand before we move on.

So in this section, you'll learn all about EC2 instances, what they are, how to deploy them, how to

configure them and make sure that they have the right storage systems attached, the right IP addresses

attached, and they can communicate on the network.

You also need to understand the various pricing models as that can come out quite a bit in exam questions.

So there's lots to get on with and lots of hands-on in this section, so I hope you enjoy it and I'll

see you in the next lesson.


Hey guys,

welcome to this video.

In this video,

you're going to learn about the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud

Amazon EC2.

So what is Amazon EC2?

With EC2,

you can launch on-demand EC2 instances in the cloud.

Now an instance is essentially a virtual server

or a virtual machine in other language.

It's running in the AWS data centers,

so you can just provision these virtual servers on demand at any time.

The instances can run either the Windows or the Linux operating system.

There is a Mac OS option as well,

but it's actually dedicated hardware,

so it's not virtual servers as it is when you're running Windows or Linux.

There are a few options for how you can deploy

your instances in EC2,

and that does include virtual servers,

that's mainly what we're talking about,

but there are dedicated hardware options for

EC2 running Windows,

Linux or Mac OS.

Mac OS is always dedicated hardware.

EC2 instances are attached to the network within a VPC.

More on that later,

via an elastic network interface.

Each instance will always have at least one ENI,

and you can add additional network adapters as well.

And you get a lot of control over the networking configuration

within AWS.

EC2 instances are launched into subnets within

an Amazon virtual private cloud of VPC.

Now you get to create your own VPCs.

AWS does already provision some for you within each AWS region,

but you can then add your own configurations as well.

Now these are always private to you,

so every VPC,

whether it's created by AWS or created and configured by yourself,

it's always a private space for networking

within

your own environment.

And you can also attach it to.

A internet gateway so that you can get public connectivity as well,

that's what a public subnet is for.

So we can choose whether our instances only have

private networking and can only communicate amongst themselves,

or perhaps we do want them to have internet connectivity or

connectivity to other networks like on-premises data centers as well.

All of that is within our control.

For the storage layer,

the main storage for an EC2 instance is the elasticlock store EBS.

These are persistent storage volumes.

This is an example

of essentially hard disk drives or solid state drives in the cloud.

So that means it's a

block-based storage system.

Within the AWS data centers,

Amazon EC2 instances run on servers,

and those servers are managed by AWS.

Many instances can run on each of those

physical host servers within the AWS data centers.

The hosts of course are completely managed by AWS

whereas the virtual instances that you run,

those are managed by you,

so those are virtual servers that you have control over.

You get to choose which operating system,

what hardware configuration,

what applications you want to run,

and you're also responsible for updating your own

application stack and your operating system patches,

securing.

Your servers.

Everything within the virtual machine itself

is the responsibility of the customer.

There's a selection of instance types available.

That means that you can get different combinations of hardware profile.

How much CPU do you want?

How much memory do you want?

What storage devices do you want to connect and

what amount of networking capacity do you actually need?

You get to choose those based on your own unique requirements for each workload.

So instances are flexible and on demand.

That means they can be stopped

when they're not needed,

which will save you cost

because you're only paying for when it's running.

Now a caveat to that is that the storage

volumes are always charged based on the amount.

Of space that you actually provision,

not necessarily use.

So if you provision a 100 gigabyte

EBS volume,

you will get charged for that 100 gigabytes,

whether it's used or not,

and it doesn't matter how much of the

space within that volume you've actually used for

actual data,

you're still going to get charged for the capacity provisioned.

For the instances themselves,

you pay

for when they're running,

not when they're stopped.

So when you're not using a workload,

you can shut it down,

for example,

overnight if it's only used during business hours.

And you pay different rates based on the instance type.

We can always then just start them and

of course all this can be done programmatically.

So we can do this through a console or we

can do it programmatically from a command line or through

a software development kit through automated processes.

When we no longer need an instance,

we can simply terminate it

and it will be completely deleted.

EC2 provides a selection of instance families and instance types.

The families provide varying combinations of hardware resources

that are optimized for different compute workloads.

For example,

general purpose,

we have compute optimized,

memory optimized,

accelerated computing and storage optimized,

and there's more than that as well.

There's a very wide selection

of instance families and hundreds of instance types.

For example here,

a compute optimized instance

will be one that has a higher ratio of CPU.

compared to memory,

whereas a memory optimized instance type will have

a higher ratio of memory compared to CPU.

So some workloads,

of course,

require more CPU than memory and others the opposite.

So this gives us advantages here in choosing the

one that's correct for whatever our use cases.

Larger sizes,

so instance types with higher amounts of CPU and memory and so on,

will provide greater hardware capability,

and of course you pay for that.

Now when you look through all the instances,

families and types,

you will see,

for example,

them specified like this,

M5.

large.

M in this case would be the family name,

so this is a memory optimized instance.

5 is the generation number and large is the size of the instance.

Let's see some examples.

Here on the left we have a T2 micro,

it has 1 virtual CPU

and 1 gigabyte of memory.

In the middle we've got a C3.X large,

4 VCPUs,

7.5 gigabytes of memory,

and on the right we've got an M4.16X large,

which has 64 VCPUs and 256 gigabytes of memory.

As you can see,

the price per hour is very different going from left to right here.

Now you don't need to correct me if the numbers are not correct,

these prices change all the time.

I'm just showing you these purely for a.

Relative comparison,

so you can see the difference between

an instance that has one CPU and 1 gigabyte of

memory versus one that has 64 BCPUs and 256 gigabytes.

Of course that's gonna cost you a lot more on a monthly basis,

compared to a lower

profile instance type.

So you've got to choose the right workload

for your particular use case to make sure you're optimizing cost.

Amazon EC2 instances are connected to the network via elastic network interfaces.

The instances are always deployed within a virtual private cloud.

Now AWS has what are called availability zones in every AWS region,

and those are essentially the data centers in which AWS runs their infrastructure.

Now.

What we can do is then create virtual private clouds

and create subnets,

and those subnets must map to an availability zone.

So they're actually sort of located within a data center,

if you like.

But this is a logical construct that we have control over,

that's mapped to the physical world.

Now,

we can then launch our instances in subnets.

If we launch an instance in a public subnet,

it will have both a private IP address

and a public IP address,

which is optional,

but if you want to actually have public connectivity,

then it will need a public IP address.

Now in a Linux instance that Ethernet interface would be E zero,

and it's labeled a little differently if you're running Windows.

But that is the first elastic network interface.

attached to the instance.

We can also launch our instances in private subnets.

In this case,

they will only have

private IP addresses.

There's no need for a public IP address within a private subnet.

Instances can even be launched with multiple interfaces,

and those can be in the same subnet or they can even be

in different subnets as long as they're within the same availability zone.

Let's explore the different types of IP address you can use with EC2.

Firstly,

a public IP address.

This is a dynamic address picked up using the dynamic host configuration protocol.

It's dynamic meaning

that it will be lost

if the instance is stopped and started again.

These are used in public subnets.

There is a small charge for using a public IP address.

It's associated to the private IP address on the instance,

which means if you run commands within

your instance,

such as IF config or IP config,

you won't actually see the public IP address listed.

Because as far as the instance operating system is concerned,

there is only an elastic network interface that has a private IP address.

The association to the public IP address is done externally to the instance.

You can't move these public IP addresses between instances.

The.

IP address is actually retained if the instance is stopped and started again.

They're used in public and private subnets,

and an instance will always have a private IP address.

An elastic IP address is a type of static public address.

So if you need to rely on the address being the same.

Then this is what you can do.

You can provision an elastic IP address,

you do pay a charge for these,

and they also get associated to the private IP address on the instance,

the same as a public IP address.

The key difference is that these are static

and they can also be moved between instances

and elastic networks.

Adapters.

Now there are different types of network interface.

The first one is the elastic network interface.

We also have the elastic network adapter and the elastic fabric adapter.

The ENI is the basic adapter type for

when you don't have any high performance requirements,

and you can use these with all instance types.

The ENA is enhanced networking.

It provides higher performance,

higher bandwidth and lower interinstance latency,

and you must choose supported instance types for using an ENA.

The EFA is used with high performance computing

deployments and MPI and machine learning use cases.

It's good for tightly coupled applications where you need to have really low.

Into instance latency,

and you can use these with all instance types.

The principal storage for Amazon EC2 instances is the elastic block store.

This is an example of a block-based storage system for persistent storage.

EBS volumes are attached directly to EC2 instances.

In a Windows instance,

you would see these as local drives,

not as network drives.

This is not like an example of a remote file system,

this is a block-based storage system.

Now,

even though it's attached over the network,

it does appear to the operating system to be a local storage device,

just like if you installed a hard disk drive or solid state drive

into the computer itself.

The volume is attached over a network,

as I mentioned.

EBS volumes exist within an availability zone,

and they must be in the same availability zone as

the instance to which you want to attach them.

The volume.

are automatically replicated within the AZ for durability.

Now,

there are various different volume types.

These are the current volume types.

This may change over time,

but we have the GP3 general purpose solid state drive,

the GP2.

We've got the IO2 and the IO1.

These are for when you need much higher IOPS,

that's IOPS or input output per second.

Which means a lot more transactions are happening,

a lot more read and write operations on the disk.

So if you have very high volumes of IOPs,

so read and write requests,

then you might want to use one of those volume types.

And of course you'll pay a

a different rate for the different storage volumes

based on the performance that they actually provide.

ST one is better for throughport optimized.

Those are hard disk drives.

And the SE1 is a cold hard disk drive,

so that's a lower performance,

however,

these are obviously lower cost as well.

And the old magnetic standard,

which is another type of hard disk drive,

we don't use these much anymore.

So a bit of data here for you on durability,

the volume and minimum and maximum size,

the max achievable IOPS,

the IOPs,

the max throughput that you can get per volume.

And whether they support something called multi-attach.

Now multi-attach is where

we can attach multiple instances to one EBS volume.

As you can see,

only these two storage volume types in the middle here,

IO 2 and IO1,

they're the only ones that support multi-attach.

Multi-attach would be where multiple instances of sharing a volume,

perhaps for clustering purposes,

for example.

It's not like a shared file system.

For a shared file system you're better off using Amazon Elastic

file system for Linux or Amazon FSX for Windows servers.

In this case,

Multi-attach is still a block-based storage system,

but it allows you to attach multiple instances and there are quite

a few restrictions on how you can use the multi-attached volumes.

So what are the various use cases?

For GP3,

it's most workloads,

including databases and dev test environments.

For GP 2,

it's just an older version of GP3,

good for boot volumes,

dev test,

general use.

IO2 and IO1,

these are for more high performance use cases where you need to drive a higher IOPs.

For ST1 and SC1,

these are the hard disk drive options.

They have good freeput,

but they're.

What is good for IOPs.

However,

they do come at a lower cost per gigabyte,

so they can be good for some use cases.

Magnetic,

we don't really use much anymore,

but it is still there.

Now,

there's another concept called the instant store.

I mentioned that EBS volumes are attached over the network.

So as you can see in this diagram here,

we have the host server,

we have instances running,

and then we have the.

Interfaces,

so in this case,

the adapters connected to the host server,

of course,

the networking is then extended through to the virtual machine

using an ENI.

Now,

the servers are connected

across the network to the EBS storage system.

That's where the volumes are attached from.

And these are great for persistent storage.

However,

instant store volumes are these volumes here that are attached physically.

To the host server,

they offer very,

very high performance,

however,

it's important to note

that they are not persistent,

so they're what we call ephemeral.

That means the data will be lost whenever power is lost,

a bit like a memory chip

in a server.

If you pull the power from the server,

anything that was in that memory chip is gone.

OK,

whereas with a hard disk drive or a solid state drive,

that is persistent storage.

So you can't store anything on an instant store

that you can't either recreate or that doesn't have sort of longer term value,

so if you lose it,

it doesn't actually matter.

There are use cases for this,

you can use it for temporary storage files,

you can use it for data that is replicated many times

so that if you lose an individual instance of that data,

it doesn't matter.

And of course you get that high performance.

So there are use cases where instance stores do make sense for some data,

but for all your persistent data,

make sure you use EBS.

