Lecture: Launching Amazon EC2 Instances
URL: https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-solutions-architect-associate-hands-on/learn/lecture/43065352#content
============================================================

In this lesson,

I'm gonna show you how to launch virtual servers on Aws using the Amazon EC2 service.

And we're gonna launch a Linux instance and a Windows instance.

So when we're launching EC2 instances,

we need to first select our instance type.

So there's lots of different instance types and of course,

they come with varying amounts of CPU and memory and storage as well.

So we're gonna pay

depending on the amount of those resources we require

for most of the lessons in this course.

If not all of them, we're gonna use the T two dot micro.

This is a general purpose, easy two instance type and it's within the free tier.

So the instance type defines the hardware profile and therefore the cost,

we also need to select an Amazon machine image.

The AMI S define which operating system we want to use and how it

being configured it might have, for example, an application pre installed on it.

You can choose an Ami that has Windows with

a Microsoft SQL server database installed as an example.

So the AMI defines the configuration of the instance,

including the operating system and any software

that's installed and how the virtual drives,

the EBS volumes are defined.

Now, these are backed by what's called a snapshot. So the actual data

is stored in a snapshot.

Snapshots are actually taken from live instances as

a kind of backup and then we create an

AMI from them and we can keep launching more

instances that are the same as the original.

So a snapshot is a point in time backup of an easy two instance.

Once we've done that, we can create our own customized ami S.

So for example, we might launch an existing AMI, we might

make some customizations to it

and then create our own ami that we can then launch instances from later on.

So that's a little bit of theory.

Let's head over to the console and start building this out.

I'm back in the management console.

I'm going to type EC2, add it to my favorites and then click on EC2. OK.

So now on the EC2 management console, we've got a little bit of information here.

We've got on the left hand side, we've got all the various

different features and we can start going and working with resources

by clicking on one of those on the main page here.

We just get some summary information as well.

There's a nice tile on the top right hand corner here which

tells us how much of the free tier usage we've actually used.

So that's very useful. So what I'm gonna do is click on launch instance.

This is the same as going to instances here and then clicking on launch instance.

But I'm just gonna use the button on the screen here.

So now I can name my instance if I want to. That's optional.

Well, I'm gonna call this Linux

dash server. Let's scroll down a little way.

Now, we can see the application and OS images, the Ami the Amazon machine image.

Now by default,

it's selected the Amazon Linux,

that's a version of Linux that's been customized by A W SS.

It includes a variety of things like it includes

certain agents and the command line interface for AWS.

The Amazon Linux, AMI has been customized by AWS and

includes certain

agents and the AWS command line interface. So it's very useful.

So here we've chosen the Amazon Linux 2023 Ami that's actually been selected for us

and it says free tier eligible, which is good news.

Now, if we scroll down a little way, now we've got the incident type.

So here T two micro is selected by default free tier eligible. That's good news.

If we wanted to change it, we could click on the little arrow

and then we can choose from

one of the different options here. I'm gonna leave it as it is.

Next, we have the key pair,

key pairs are used for connecting to our instances using

the secure shell if we're connecting from outside Aws,

for example, now I don't have any key pairs.

So I'm gonna create a new one.

I'm going to leave the default Rs A and dot Pe M

and I'm gonna give this a name that's descriptive. So I'll call this DC T lab training

dash us E

one. And then I'm just gonna create the key pair.

Now, what's gonna happen is that will have downloaded a

to my computer. This is actually using cryptography, public and private keys.

The private key has been downloaded to your computer.

It's probably in your downloads directory.

Make sure you move that somewhere where you can find it later on

and where it is kept securely because it is sensitive information.

Anybody with that particular file will be able

to connect to your instances and manage them.

Ok? So that's all we need to do there for. Now. It's selected the key pair for us.

Once we've created it for network settings,

we're going to leave some of the defaults here,

but we need to create a new security group.

Now, if I do it from here, it's gonna give it a weird name. OK?

So rather I would prefer to click on edit and then I can actually give it a name

and I'm gonna call this web access.

I'm gonna copy that name into the description

and then

here we have SSH OK. That's all I need for.

Now, secure shell and it's going to allow any source address.

The zeros means any source IP address.

That's all good news that gives me the ability to connect. Ok?

So let's scroll down a little way and we're

gonna leave the con storage as the defaults.

And actually that's all we need to do for now. There's some more advanced options.

We'll get to those in another lesson.

I just want one of these instances. I'm happy with the summary here.

So I'm just gonna launch so that instance is launching,

I can click on view all instances and we can see that it's pending.

So that should change to a running state soon.

We can see lots of information by clicking on the instance.

And now I can see

it's instance ID, a unique identifier, public IP address,

the private IP address.

It also has a public and private DNS name that we can use and

there's various different tabs for monitoring information.

We can see the security group we assigned.

So that's essentially the firewall that's allowing access on port 20.

In this case,

there's lots of networking information we can see it's

in the US East one D availability zone.

And this is going to have been deployed in our default virtual private cloud,

which for now is fine.

We'll get on to some more details about that later on. So that is now running.

That's great. Let's launch another instance.

I'll call this One windows server and we're

gonna scroll down here and choose windows.

Now, by the way, you'll notice there's this browse more Ami S,

let's see where that takes us.

If I click on browse more Ami S, we've got

the quickstart, Ami S got my Ami S.

If we have our, our own custom Ami S, they'll be in here. There's marketplace Ami S.

So now we've got lots of Ami S that include various software like VPN servers,

backup and recovery software, networking, firewalls,

like Palo Alto Splunk enterprise and so on

built into the instance.

And typically you'll pay a higher rate for these

because the software charges are going to be included.

That's not always the case,

but that's sometimes the case.

And then there's community AMI S which people in the

community have created and shared for everyone else to use.

And in fact, I'm gonna cancel out of that one,

come back to here and just click on Windows

and it chooses for me, the Microsoft Windows server 2022 base.

That's great.

Again, it's gonna be a T two micro for the key pair.

It is very important for the Windows instances that we select this.

We don't always need to assign a key pair

for our Linux instances because we can often use

a service called cloudshell to connect to them if

we want to connect using the secure shell protocol,

which I'll show you in another lesson.

However, for Windows, in order to retrieve the password,

we have to have a key pair assigned.

So select the key pair name

under network settings.

We're gonna select an existing security group and choose web access.

Now, in this case,

web access does not have the rule that we need

to connect to Windows at this point in time.

So we're gonna have to go and edit that in a moment. So that's all I need to do.

I can click on launch instance

and now I'm gonna have my Windows instance up and running shortly.

Let's go back to check it out. If I refresh the page here, we can see

two different instances.

By the way, you can filter by state up here.

So for example, if I filter by running, I only see my running instances.

So sometimes that happens for you by default.

So if you can't see what you're expecting to see, make sure it's set to all states.

Now, I need to be able to connect to my windows server

and I want to use the remote desktop protocol.

So under security here, I can see that I have a security group

which has port 22 open. That's not for the remote desktop protocol.

That's for the Linux server when we use the secure shell protocol. OK?

So I can click on the security group here to edit

it or on the left hand side under network and security,

we can choose security groups and I can find the same security group here.

I'll click on the ID. We have inbound and outbound rules.

I only want to edit the inbound rules at the moment.

So I'm gonna click on edit inbound rules.

I'm going to add a rule,

click on this box here and I'm going to type RDP to

easily find the RDP protocol which will allow access on port 3389.

And then I'm going to change

to anywhere I PV four allowing any source address and then save rules. So that's it.

We've launched our two instances

and we have to wait a couple of minutes for the

Windows instance before we're gonna be able to connect to it,

the Linux server would be ready now.

And that's what we're gonna do in another lesson.

We're gonna leave these two running and I'm

gonna show you how you can connect to Linux

using the secure shell protocol and windows, using the remote desktop protocol.