Welcome back in this lesson.

I'm gonna show you how to connect to your EC2

instances using the secure shell protocol and the RDP protocol.

So you should have your Linux

and Windows instance running in EC2 back in the EC2 management console.

I've selected my Linux server. Now, we can see that we've got a public IP address

and we've got a public IP DNS address as well.

So if we want to, we can use those to connect from the outside world.

Now, let's have a look at the various different ways that we can connect.

If I click on connect with the instant selected,

we can now use the easy two instance connect.

That's what we're about to use or we can use session manager.

This is using the systems manager service.

It's one of the features of systems manager gives us

a very secure way of connecting without opening any ports.

We've then got the SSH client.

So if you wanted to connect from your home computer, this is what you could use.

You'd need your private key pair,

uh your private key file that is so remember earlier on,

we created a key pair and it downloaded a file to our computer.

That's the private key file and it actually gives us the full command.

So we can see the command is SSH dash.

I, then the name of the PE M file, that's the file that was downloaded the key pair.

So yours is gonna be different

and then EC2 user,

ec2 dash user at

and then we've got the public DNS name or this could be the public IP address.

That would be the full command that you

would need to connect from your home computer.

Now, I recommend if you're using Windows, you do install an SSH client.

It is a feature of Windows.

So you just have to Google how to do

that for your particular version of the operating system.

If you're on Mac, for example, you'll always have an SSH client installed,

same with Linux.

Now, what we're gonna use today is EC2 instance connects here.

We're gonna connect using E two instance,

connect the s the connection type on the left.

The right hand, one is for where our instances are within a private subnet.

And we have to create something called an endpoint first.

But our instances have been launched into the default BBC,

which by default has public subnets only.

That means they have public addresses and we can

connect to the instances directly from the internet.

Now, the user name has been specified as EC2 dash user. That's correct.

I'm gonna leave that

as it is and let's click on connect.

I'm now connected to the command line on my easy two instance, if I run something,

like if config it shows me the IP addresses associated with the

instance I should be able to ping google.com and get a response.

And that proves that I can actually connect and then I

have to hit control C by the way to stop that.

Otherwise, it would just keep sending those ping requests over and over again.

So that's good. That will work successfully.

Now, if you do have any issues here,

if a little red banner comes up saying it can't connect,

there's two main things which you need to check.

Firstly, you do need to have a public IP address.

Secondly, your instance must have the port 22 open in its security group.

So click on security port 22 with the source should be all zeros.

That's any source address. That's what that actually means.

OK?

If you've got those two things selected,

then instance connect should definitely work with the Amazon, Linux

ami. OK? So that's Linux very, very easy to connect.

And now we're free to manage this server from the command line.

So next, let's move to Windows for Windows, we're gonna select the server,

we're going to click on connect.

The options are slightly different. Now,

there is an option for session manager for remote powershell on the command line,

but we're gonna use the RDP clients. So that's the remote desktop protocol.

What we have to do here is we can download the remote desktop file

and that's gonna download a file to our computer, which we can utilize

or we can add the information directly for this exercise.

You will need an RDP client. That's a bit of software on your computer.

If you're using Windows, it's easy. There's always an RDP client installed.

If you're using Mac like I am, then you have to download and install it.

But you can find an RDP client on the internet. So just

search for RDP client Mac and you'll be able to find some software to install.

What I need to do is get the password for login.

Ok. So we're gonna do that in just a moment.

Firstly, I'm gonna copy the public DNS name.

We can see that the user name is administrator.

Ok. That's fine. Now, with my remote desktop software, I'm gonna click on add PC.

Enter this as the PC name

and click on add.

Ok. So now it's ready to go.

And what's gonna happen is I'm gonna connect and

it's gonna ask for the user name and password.

Now we need to go and retrieve the password first.

So I'm just gonna cancel out here until I've got that information

to retrieve the password. We click on get password

and now we need to upload the private key file. So I've uploaded my private key file.

That's the one that I downloaded in a previous lesson when we created that key pair.

Ok,

you can select the file and it's going to download all the contents for you.

And then we can click on this option decrypt password

and I can see the password. I know that the user name is administrator.

So I'm just gonna copy the password

and back in my ID P client.

I'm going to double click, put in the administrator, user name,

put in the password and then continue and let's continue again.

And that should connect me to the desktop of the server.

And there we go, I'm being logged into the desktop of a windows server on AWS.

So here we are, we have the Windows desktop. This server is now ready to administer.

Now, as with the Linux server, we need to have a certain port open for all this to work.

So if it failed again, you can go back and check by clicking on your windows server,

selecting security and checking that security group.

And you need to make sure that you've got port 3389 open

and the source has to be from anywhere. That's the remote desktop protocol.

So that's basically it.

We've now launched two virtual servers in the cloud running Windows and Linux

and I've shown you how to connect to those instances so you can administer them.

I finished with my Windows instance.

So I'm gonna go ahead and terminate the instance.

So up in the top menu here, you can choose instance state, you can stop instances.

And that means you're not going to pay for the running compute and memory.

You will still pay for the storage that's allocated to this server.

You can reboot instances. And of course, you can terminate instances as well.

And that essentially deletes them.

When we click on terminate,

we'll find that the instance changes to a terminated state fairly quickly

and then it will stay in the console here for a while. Don't worry about it.

It will disappear after a little while.

The other thing that we can do in terms of administration under actions,

there's a variety of other settings and we're gonna go through

many more of these as we go through the course.

But for now I'm leaving my Linux server running.