In this lesson, I'm going to cover easy two user data and metadata.

So what are these two things?

Instance metadata is data about your instance.

It's available under this path.

We've got 169254169254 slash latest slash metadata.

And you can see it's an http URL.

So for example, if I use the curl utility to access that path,

it returns some of the available information

like the AMI ID host name and so on.

So I can then go a little bit further and run this curl

command which goes to slash latest slash metadata slash local I PV four.

And you can see here this is the I PV four address,

OK? It's before the prompt by the way.

So the way that the curl utility returns the information is before the prompt.

So you gotta look back here for it. OK? I've highlighted it in red.

In another example here, I'm looking for the public I PV four.

So again at the beginning here before the prompt,

I have the public address returned to me.

Now there's two different versions of the instance metadata service

V one and V two, V one is older and less secure

V two is newer, more secure and requires a session token for authorization.

The examples I just showed you were with Im Ds V one. I didn't have to authenticate.

I just ran the curl command and it returned the information.

Now, when you launch an EC2 instance,

you can specify whether you want to enable V one or only V two.

The default with the latest ami at the time of

recording this video is that it defaults to V two.

So you won't be able to run those curl commands.

So the default launch settings may disable IM DS V one. It's not a bad thing.

It's more it's for security. So we do want to leave those defaults for most purposes.

We just need to specify a token.

This is what it looks like when you're in the launch wizard.

And you've gone down to enable advanced settings for EC2,

you'll see the option metadata accessible.

You can turn that off completely if you want to

the and then we still have the version here. So V two only token required. OK?

So you have to include a session token

in all instance, metadata requests. Next up, we have user data.

So user data is the ability to run code when the incident starts for the first time.

It's basically like running a script.

We can define the script in the user data field

here or we can supply it at the command line interface

and the code is going to run,

we can also use batch and powershell scripts on Windows as well.

So if you're launching Windows instances, you can still run user data.

The example here is some code that's gonna run on a Linux instance to update patches

and then install and start a web server.

So in this case, we end up with an EC2 instance running a web server.

So that's using the management console.

As I mentioned, you can also do it via the cli.

So here the user data is supplied by specifying the file

in the CLI command.

And this would be the script file or the contents of the script file,

which we're then going to execute as the instance launches.

So a little bit more information about user data,

it must be base 64 encoded.

This happens automatically when you're using the console and the cli user data

is limited to 16 kilobytes in raw form before it's base 64 encoded.

Now, user data only runs the first time you launch your instance,

you can view the user data in the console.

You can even stop your instance and edit the user data,

but it still only runs the first time you launch your instance.

So just bear that in mind.

So user data is a way to run scripts when we start our instances.

The first time metadata is the way that we

can retrieve specific information about the instance itself and we

can combine these two and we'll see that when we

do hands on practice with user data and metadata.