OK. So the best way to learn is to get hands on.

So let's play around with some user data and metadata on EC2.

So you wanna be logged into the console.

You also wanna open up this markdown file, you will find it in the course,

download in the Amazon EC2 directory and it's called user data metadata dot MD.

OK? So what we need to do first is go and launch instances.

I'm gonna launch two instances.

I'm gonna show you how to configure one that allows Im Ds version one

and the other one which is gonna have the default setting,

which does not allow Im Ds V one.

So we have to use token based authentication. So let's see what all this means.

Let's head over to EC2

in EC2. I'm going to launch a couple of instances for the first one.

I'm gonna give it a name so I can identify easily IM DS V one

and I'm going to leave the default Linux 2023

Ami or whatever the latest is for the Linux

Ami from Amazon

T two micro.

I don't need a key pair and I wanna make sure that

I have a security group that allows port 22 and port 80.

OK?

Port 22 for remote secure shell port 80 cos we're gonna run a web server a bit later on.

In the exercise,

I have one called web access. We'll check the port rules on that in a moment

at the very bottom of the page here. Expand advanced details.

We're gonna scroll right the way down

until we see

the metadata here. So we see metadata accessible.

I do wanna have it enabled, but the default is V two only token required.

So for V two requests,

you must include the session token to all instance metadata requests.

Now I'm gonna just flick it back so that I allow

V one and V two and then the token is optional.

And then I'm simply gonna launch this instance,

I'll then do the same thing.

But I'm gonna launch one with the default settings

which will have V two only.

So Im Ds V two as a label, same again, proceed about a key pair,

use a security group and then that's it. This time, I'm not changing anything.

It's gonna require token based authentication

so I can just launch that instance

coming back up. Let's just check our instances.

I'm gonna go across to the security tab here and I can see my role.

It's got a bunch of different ports from various testing I've been doing,

but most importantly, it's got port 80 from any source and port 22 from any source.

So this is gonna work for this lab.

So just wanna give it a minute or two just to make sure the instance is up and running

and then we're gonna connect using instance

connect. So hopefully my first instance is ready to accept connections.

I've selected it. Let's click on connect.

We're gonna use the UE two instance connect here, click on connect again.

I've got EC2 user as the user name.

And here we are, I'm on the console through secure shell.

So this is the first instance I launched,

which will allow us to run these commands without the authentication token.

So here are the commands.

I'm gonna run the first one.

So it's a curl command. So curl is basically a utility for making http connections.

And then the 169254169254 local address for the metadata service.

This one is going to retrieve the instance ID.

So let's just pop that into

the command line here.

Now, the actual result is

over here on the left hand side before the prompt.

So we can see the instance ID is returned

when I here to enter again, it just comes back to a normal prompt.

I can do the same for AMI ID. Let's copy this one paste that in

and my Ami ID gets returned in the left hand side here.

So this is a very useful way of retrieving this information from our instance.

Now you don't have to use the exact commands that I've shown you.

If you back space back to metadata with a slash on the end,

it's gonna return all of these different options.

So for example, I could now add in, we've got one here that says placement.

So I'll type in placement slash press enter

and we can see it's returned the options under placement like availability zone.

Let's put it in availability zone,

availability dash zone. Make sure you put a slash on the end press enter.

And right at the bottom of my screen here is us E one C.

So it's retrieved the availability zone of the instance.

So again, could be very useful information for us.

So that's my instance that allows Im Ds version one.

Let's now connect to the other instance,

the IM DS V two only instance with the default settings that will not allow

us to use these commands without an authentication token.

So here we are, I'm on the instance.

Let's come back and I'm just gonna copy one of these commands again.

Maybe I'll try and get the

instance type, put this in press enter and I get this message back.

So it's telling me essentially unauthorized, we're not able to do that. All right,

let's clear the screen. What do we need to do instead?

What we need to do is firstly create a session

and get a token. So that's this command here.

Essentially we're configuring an environment variable,

the environment variable will be token

and the results of this command

which is going to create a session and retrieve an authentication token

is

going to be stored as the environment variable.

So we need to copy that entire line, copy that to my clipboard.

I'll come back,

I'll put it in press enter

and that's actually achieved what I wanted it to.

If I, for example, go echo dollar token,

we can actually see the token that's being returned.

It's being stored as this environment variable token.

So now we have the token, let's use it in a command.

What I'm gonna do is run this command to get the instance ID.

It's very much like the one we ran earlier on.

We got this curl command in here to retrieve the instance metadata information.

Except what we're gonna do here is we have the dash H and we're supplying

the authentication token here. So X aws E two metadata token

is gonna correspond to the token that we have stored in this environment variable.

So I can copy this entire command

and let's try and run this one and it works. I get the instance ID right here.

So we've done the authentication now,

we can actually retrieve the information more securely than we did before.

And you can do the same, of course, with the AMI ID here as well.

So that's instant metadata, lots of information about our instance,

what about user data?

So user data is essentially like running a script when the instant

starts for the first time and only for the first time.

And what we can do is we can leverage metadata within user data.

So here we have a script, this is a bash script.

And with our user data, we always start with this,

the shebang exclamation mark slash bin slash bash.

That's the path to the interpreter,

the bash interpreter that's gonna run the commands for us.

So that's normal to have that there.

After that, these items in green are just comments

in the script and then these are the actual commands themselves.

So here we're gonna run a yum update. So we're gonna update the latest patches.

We're gonna install the Apache web service, http D

we're gonna start and enable the web server.

So it starts on boot, then we're utilizing metadata.

So what's gonna happen with this script? It's gonna install a web server

and it's gonna create a custom page and that custom page

will include some information that's specific to that easy two instance

because it's gonna be using metadata

to retrieve the instance ID,

the AMI id and the instance type and output that information onto the web page.

Now, we can run this as user data,

but I'll just show you you can run this as a script directly on the instance as well.

So I'm gonna copy all of this information

that's between um this enclosing bash with the, the free tick marks at the end

and at the beginning.

So just copy all of that information.

We'll come back to the instance that's running with IM Ds V two. I'm gonna clear

I'm gonna use Nano to create a script

and I'll just unimaginatively call it script dot

sh.

And then let's save that.

I need to make it executable. So I run ch mod plus X script

and

that should now have the permissions we need.

OK. So it's now an executable script.

So, what I need to do now is I'm gonna run it as pseudo.

So I'll run pseudo dot slash script.

And that's going to actually go ahead.

You can see it's trying to install any updates

that are missing on this particular Ami it's gonna install

the Apache web service and then it's gonna create

that custom web page with the metadata on it.

Now that's finished. So let's come back to instances here.

I'll select my IM DS V two instance, copy the public IP

and let's paste this in. And let's see.

And now we get this custom web page

and it shows us the instance ID, the AMI ID

and the instance type. So I just ran that directly on the instance as a script,

user data is basically doing the same thing. What we're gonna do now is

I'm gonna click on launch instances

and just give us a label user data test.

Again. I'm gonna leave mostly defaults don't need a keya

do need a security group with port 80 open.

So I'll choose my web access and now under advanced details,

just go all the way to the bottom

and we're gonna paste our user data in here.

OK? So we have this box user data

optional. So I'm gonna come back copy

the exact same script,

paste it exactly as it is in here and then click launch instance.

And this is gonna have exactly the same effect.

It's going to run through the script as the instance launches

again. This only happens the first time the instance is run.

Now, if I select the instance, you can actually come over to

instant settings, edit user data.

OK?

But don't be fooled, you can't actually edit it in here while the instance is live,

you can stop it and edit it, but it won't run.

OK? But it's useful sometimes because you can view the information.

So you wanna check, what was the user data I ran on this particular instance.

So you can come in here and see it.

OK?

So I've given it a minute, it might take a bit longer,

give this uh at least a minute or two

just to boot up. Cos it does have to run that script as well.

It's not a very complex script but uh it needs a little bit of time to boot.

So I'm gonna see if mine is ready.

Let's use the public IP address

and it is.

There we go.

So we can see the instance ID,

the AMI id

and the instance type. So that is using metadata and user data together.

Now I've finished with my instances.

So I'm simply gonna come back and terminate all three instances.