Lecture: Access Keys and IAM Roles with EC2
URL: https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-solutions-architect-associate-hands-on/learn/
============================================================

Hey guys and welcome to this lesson.

So in this one,

I'm going to talk about access keys and I am roles two different

ways that we can actually supply permissions to Amazon E two instances.

So let's see how this looks. So here we have an instance in a public subnet

and AWS cli has been configured with access keys because we wanna work

with an S3 bucket from the command line on this particular instance.

Now the actual access keys are associated with an account.

So whichever account created the access keys,

that's the account they're associated with and they pick up the permissions

assigned to any permissions policies assigned to that I am user.

So essentially through this, I am user, we've created access keys,

we've configured the command line interface on

the instance with those access keys.

So now whatever commands we run on that instance will

have the same permissions as that user would have.

So now we've found a way to give our instance permissions

problem is when we use access keys,

these are long term credentials and we wanna try and avoid using them as

much as possible because if they're compromised

and someone gets access to those keys,

they get access essentially to our account

and they are actually stored in plain text on the actual instance itself.

So not really the most secure configuration

instead,

what we can do is we can utilize I AM rolls rolls have policies assigned to them.

So now we can supply the permissions that we want our instance to have.

There's no credentials stored on the instance.

So we don't have that security exposure that we have with those access keys.

Now,

the instance is going to assume the role and gain

the access permissions that it needs on the S3 bucket.

OK? So two different ways of performing the same thing.

But the second way, this way is more secure than using access key.

So we wanna try and use this method whenever we can.

One thing to note when we're using I AM rolls

is it is utilizing the AWS security token service,

Aws sts

in order to gain credentials. So it's actually gaining essentially access keys.

But those access keys have a much shorter expiration

and the instance will automatically

renegotiate with Sts and get some new credentials before they expire.

So it's all happening automatically in the background.

And those shorter term credentials are of course more secure than if we

have the long term ones stored in plain text on the computer.

So this is the best option we're gonna use these as much as possible.

That's it for this. Lesson. I will see you in the next one.




Hey guys in this lesson,

we're going to work with access keys and I am roles on Amazon E two instances.

So let's head over to the console back in the console here.

I still have a Linux server running has a public

IP address and I'm able to connect to this instance.

So let's go ahead and connect using easy two instance connects.

So I'm logged into the console. I can run commands on windows.

Now,

the great thing about the Amazon Linux 2023 AMI or one of

the great things is it has the AWS command line interface already installed

so I can run commands like AWS S3 LS.

But when I do so

I get this message unable to locate credentials.

You can configure credentials by running aws configure.

So it basically means we do not have any permissions.

That makes sense. Even though I have permissions under my user account,

Linux,

the operating system does not have any permissions. That's a good thing.

We don't want it to inherit permissions from us.

In fact, we're actually logged in

as a user called easy two user.

That user account does not have too many permissions on.

Linux certainly doesn't have any permissions to any Aws services.

So, what we need to do is supply those permissions.

Now, there's two ways of doing that. One is through access keys.

That's when we use the Aws configure, the other is an I AM role.

So let's head over to the I AM service and open that up in a new tab.

And what I need to do to,

to get some access keys. I'm gonna click on users,

choose my user account,

go to security credentials

and then we're gonna come down here to where it says create access key.

I'm gonna choose command line interface as the use case.

And straight away you can see there's a bit of a warning here.

There's better ways of doing this and there certainly are.

This is not the recommended way to actually administer your servers or

provide permissions to your servers so that they can access aws applications.

The role is the better way

for now. I'm ok with this because I just wanna demonstrate it to you.

Let's click on next. I don't need a description and create access key.

Now this information is displayed to you. Now

you can retrieve the access key later on.

You can only retrieve the secret access key now

and optionally you can download it.

This is very important information.

This is essentially like a user name and password

because anyone with this access key and secret access

key are able to perform api actions in your

account and they will inherit your user permissions.

OK? So very dangerous. Watch out for that.

Now, I'm gonna copy the access key come back to

the server and I'm gonna run that AWS configure command.

It's now gonna ask me for the access key ID,

I'll paste it in.

It's gonna ask for the secret access key.

I'm gonna copy that come back,

paste it in and then it wants the region name or the default region.

I'm gonna set mine to us East one with

dashes in between and press enter and enter again.

So now let's try and rerun that command from earlier aws S3 LS

and no response there. That actually means that we didn't get an error.

That's good news. Ok? So that just means we now have permissions.

In fact, I can run a service like AWS S3 MB to make a bucket.

This will create a container.

I'll call it my bucket and then make it unique with a bunch of random characters

that creates a bucket which is basically like a folder that you can store data into.

So now when I rerun that command,

it actually comes back with a response and it shows me the buckets in my account.

So that's just proven that we now have access to Aws services. Sounds good. However,

there are some security problems here.

If I change directory to this weird directory path,

we can see and by the way that's the, the tilda

slash dot aws.

And now we can see these two files, config and credentials.

Interesting. What's in those? I'm gonna use the cat utility.

So cat config

and in here we can see some of that information I entered when I ran Aws,

configure the default region that we specified.

But what about the other one, cat credentials? Oh, now I can see my access key

and my secret access key. Remember, this is highly sensitive information.

It's there on the hard drive of this computer.

It's there in plain text for anyone who can get into this user account.

If there was some kind of compromise of the server and they found this,

they've now compromised your entire aws account.

So it's not really very good.

Here's what I'm gonna do.

I'm gonna change directory upper level.

Ok. So now we've got those two commands. Let me just clear screen.

So now I'm back in my use directory.

I am going to run RM dash RF tilda slash dot aws

slash star.

Ok. So let's remove those credentials.

Let's rerun Aws S3 Ls.

Ok. No credentials. They're gone. Now, let's do it the better way.

Let's go back to I am and we're going to use a roll.

Now, I've actually shown you my access keys, which is not very secure.

Of course, because that's very sensitive information.

So what we can do with our access keys is we can always deactivate them

and after you've deactivated them,

you can delete them.

Ok? So now

it's no use to anyone.

So let's just copy this into the confirmation delete.

Now, my account is secure again.

So let's go to rolls. We're gonna create a roll for E two

and

here we're gonna choose the Aws service this time.

So under use case with AWS service selected,

I'm gonna type EC2, choose EC2

and then I'll leave the default option.

Click on next.

Now, I need to supply some permissions.

Let's provide S3 read only access.

It's a useful permission to have. I'll call this 1 S3 read only

and then it's just scroll down.

We can see a couple of things here. So the trust policy very important.

Remember, the trust policy with a role defines who is allowed to assume the role,

who is able to perform this action, sts assumed role who or what?

In this case, it's

a service.

So it's the principle is a service and it's E two.

And when EC2 assumes this role, they will, it will gain these permissions.

So let's create the role that's done.

Now, we need to go back to EC2. Select the instance,

go to actions,

security

and modify. I am roll.

Now, the roles that appear here are the ones that have that trust policy.

So we've just got the one at the moment S3 read only. Choose that option,

select update I am roll and that's done. That should take instant effect.

Let's rerun that command

and now we get our bucket returned. So now we have credentials again. But guess what?

There's nothing on the hard drive of this computer

that, that directory with the credentials in does not exist anymore.

I deleted those files. They're gone.

My

hard drive is secure.

There's no plain text data stored in here for

credentials that will essentially supply people access to my account

so much better to use rolls which leverage those

temporary credentials which don't get stored on the computer.

Ok. So that's it for this lesson.

I will leave that role where it is because it is useful.

Sometimes we'll use it in other labs,

but I'm finished with this particular Linux server.

So I'm going to terminate this instance

and that's it. We're all cleaned up.